If you watch this video, say this sentence:
No, really, speak it out. Because the way you say it
says a lot about how you talk.
Jonathan Ross is a talk show host and TV presenter in England.
He is among other things known for his speech defect. He can not handle the / r /
pronounce. According to most people, he uses the / w / instead. This running gag
goes so far that even his Twitternaam is @wossy.
That speech defect has a long history. Elmer Fudd has him too - he goes "wabbit hunting".
If you want to portray a character weakly or lethargically, then such a defect comes in handy.
"Wove, twue wove," as the pwester of Pwincess Bwide said.
Here is a test. Speak the sentence again. I will
this time covering my mouth so you do not get hints. Pay attention to the movement
of your mouth during the R-sounds. Okay, now together:
Make that / r / sound. Wait.
There are two ways to do this. Way one: as a / l /, with your tongue
against your palate. If you do a-la, a-ra, a-la, a-ra and it feels almost the same
then you pronounce it this way.
The other way is like a V, / w /, with your upper teeth at
your lower lip. If a-va, a-ra, a-va, a-ra feel almost the same, you pronounce it like this.
If you do it the second way: congratulations. You have the same "speech impediment"
as Jonathan Ross. And the same as me and quite a lot
young people. There are areas in Britain where people with the "lack" now
the majority are, especially among people under 30. As with Invasion of the Body Snatchers
the change happens quickly, without most people being aware of it.
This is because a normal person, and even a connoisseur, does not hear the difference.
I asked myself when I was little wonder why I could never roll my R - this is because the / r: / is very different
than the R I use. If you wonder why speakers of some languages ​​the / r /
and the / l / mix up - like Japanese and Polynesians - it is because they make the difference
between the two do not hear. It is only logical if you / r / if you / l / sounds.
The only way you can hear the difference, at least in my statement, is that I am too much
breath at the PR and BR. Bright, bring brother. A puff of air escapes at "brother" when
my mouth makes a bilabial stop, / b /, followed by my R: a labiodental approximant.
Laboratory language because the lips and teeth are used, and approximant because they are close together
but do not touch each other. It is not W - that is a labial-velar approximant, where the lips
close to each other and the tongue against the back of the mouth.
This is the phonetic symbol of the labiodental approximant. Phoneticists are using it
him more and more during the vew languages.
If you ask me, it is not even a speech impediment anymore. It's just
a different way of speaking. Jonathan Woss was the forerunner of his time. Which do you use?
Dutch translation by Zen